ah the world is changing no longer we'll
be slaves to the steam engine no longer
do we need horses to haul our goods
some might say we truly are in the
modern age for one person still hasn't
caught up the main man himself father
Christmas
[Music]
let's face it he still uses a sleigh to
haul this way halfway across the globe
and it was a woolen jacket to protect
himself from the cold honey employs a
sleep-deprived workforce of inefficient
purple to churn out with Goods he needs
not great how would he do it well
Angelini for a sleigh to effectively
circumnavigate the globe would he need
new technologies teleportation or outfit
would he need to survive the arctic
blast
what factory would you need to produce
roughly 2 billion toys for the 2 billion
children tucked up in their beds in this
special festive installment we explore
the science and logistics of Christmas
dating Center into the 21st century
[Music]
firstly let's take a look a famously
sung to slay needs a serious upgrade for
years folklore is led us to believe that
he's circumnavigated the globe on what
is essentially a device made of a couple
of planks of pine and some dusty skis
no wonder they added some Red Nosed
Reindeer into the mix frankly they bring
some plausibility to the tale however if
Santa had his own Hyperloop system in
place he'd be home before midnight and a
few pounds lighter on the old sleigh a
Hyperloop is a concept that's been
around for a long time it's a pot with
in a sealed tube that travels up to 760
miles per hour it accomplishes this
because it's completely free of air
resistance and friction conveying people
presence at super high speeds Elon Musk
the famous engineer and entrepreneur
created a version of the concept which
involves a passenger experiencing a
maximum acceleration of about 2 or 3
times that of a commercial airliner on
takeoff and landing some critics of
Hyperloop focus on the experience
between you and I probably not great one
cooped up in a narrow window Ellis
capsule inside a steel tunnel I mean
it's not for me
I'm sure Santa would benefit from being
looped around a bit not one important
night of the year
[Music]
the Arctic is known for its extremely
low temperatures a few could blame Santa
for wearing a big red coat in a fur hat
by the time he flies over Australia in
that sweltering summer heat that coat of
as' may resemble more the festive
furnace our modern-day sundae however
would be kitted out for any occasion
with the latest innovations and smart
clothes based on research from the US
Department of Energy smart clothes adapt
to your environment so you're always the
right temperature each energy can move
in three different ways by conduction
convection and radiation conduction is
where atoms and materials pass energy
from one to another convection is where
high-energy atoms move through the
environment and radiation is where heat
energy travels as electromagnetic waves
smart clothing controls heat by
increasing or decreasing how many
electromagnetic waves are escaping our
body thus moderating how easily air can
circulate clothing that can control heat
is not a new concept it's already been
developed by the military astronauts
currently where temperature regulating
suits inside their own spacesuits but so
far these garments have been quite bulky
and heavy the latest research from the
US Department of Energy could see
everyday we're being thermal regulated
which is good news for Santa cuz we'd
hate to see him lose that lavish heart
of his
now many have asked the question what if
Santa had a sick day on the most
important night of the year well in any
modern company infrastructure you'd
expect to find one of these a
contingency plan now should the
terrifying day come that Santa has a
whiff of the sniffles the North Pole
elves would have a fully automated
backup in the form of a drone Arnie
forget sleigh bells and reindeer
droppings son to reduce ultra-efficient
robots which grab items from the
workshop and deliver them under your
Christmas tree in just under two hours
it would take a lot of admin to get
every nation's aviation authorities to
approve drone flight with a bit of elf
persuasion though I think it would be
okay for Santa the first-ever Amazon
Prime drone delivery prime air took 30
minutes from order to delivery of course
we'd have to take into consideration
that the drone had taken off from a
local Depot and Santa has the
unfortunate disadvantage of being
located in the North Pole the only thing
is most race drones are capable of
speeds up to 70 miles per hour so it
might be a bit of a close call for
delivering presents
[Music]
our modern-day Santa would certainly be
an adopter of AI to solve its logistical
problems for example does he really know
Nora T from nice maybe an AI could be
taught the difference how Santa decided
he's been naughty nice has always been a
bit of a mystery I mean does he have
psychic powers Intel from parents or is
he got some sort of global surveillance
of elves watching our every move in
today's modern world the latter really
wouldn't come as a surprise every
interaction and perhaps every thought is
documented online due to the seemingly
limitless data the Internet it won't be
too hard to teach an AI the definition
between naughty and nice
to begin profiling people to these
categories according to their digital
footprint for instance Tom Hooper Asia
11 from Cornwall was told specifically
by his parents not play as games consult
after 7:00 p.m. but according to his
digital footprint there he was playing
fortnight a quarter past 7:00 now that's
one for the naughty books of course we
then move on to the moral implications
of AI are summarized perfectly 2000
years ago by Roman poet Juvenal in the
Latin phrase Chris custodiet Ipsos
custodes who will watch the Watchers
hand over this judgment to an AI and we
could all be receiving call this
Christmas best leave it to the elves
after all
Santos factory would be a strong adopter
of the slum process scan label apply
manifest although it sounds like it was
developed by the fictional Skynet it's
actually one of the staple pieces of
technology by online retailer Amazon
slum uses advanced box sizing algorithms
to determine the shortest and most
efficient walking rate from one place to
another elves will be fitted with a
wristband known simply as a bracelet
which monitors hand movements and maps
out tasks ensuring no time is wasted
once again this does raise a moral
question with psychologists wondering if
elves will be left feeling devalued and
humanized by following menial orders
from a wristband kind of like telling a
chicken how to lay eggs or lecturing an
employee on how to carry a box another
piece of technology making elves lives
easier would be a real-life Iron Man
suit at this very moment experts and
product designers are working on
state-of-the-art wearable exoskeleton
frames don't vote wait from the arms to
larger muscles found lower in the body
ranges 4 kilograms the shoulder area is
fitted with compressed Springs that
power the suit so that when you raise
your arms it's light and easy elves are
generally four-foot so this could be the
answer for carrying large items is a
surprise they've ever managed without it
[Music]
finally let's not forget one of the most
important tools of the trade for a 21st
century centre coffee 24 hours and two
billion presents to deliver and not one
single depiction of Santa clutching
caffeine someone's been telling the fibs
now we've all heard the tale of mrs.
Claus's famous black whites ah that
Christmas tradition how old son to keep
his brew warm as he navigates varying
degrees of temperature
not to worry son to be using a smart mug
a trending piece of smart tech that
allows you to set your preferred
drinking temperature monitored via an
app via santa's smartphone the mug would
keep santa's preferred temperature for
his coffee all throughout his journey
from the very first sip to the very last
drop in the case of one particular cup
it's coated in waxy phase-change of
material or PCM for short the PCM works
much like a battery being charged once
you add liquid to it the wax melts the
storing heat it absorbs heat until it
has reached the user's desired
temperature once the coffee begins to
cool the PC and recycles are stored heat
back into circulation inside the mug
change is all around us there's no
denying it old institutions are being
dried kicking and screaming into the
future and father Christmas is known in
such weather zipping around on the
Hyperloop or condemning half the world
to a naughty list or recruiting elves on
a zero-hour contract the future is
happening and it's happening now
you